src/SUMMARY.md, before:

# Summary

- [Background](./background.md)
	- [Example of using a resource](./example-of-using-a-resource.md)
	- [What is a resource](./what-is-a-resource.md)
- [Memory as a resource](./memory-as-a-resource.md)
	- [Example](./memory-as-a-resource-example.md)
	- [Garbage collectors](./garbage-collectors.md)
	- [Not all memory needs to be acquired](./not-all-memory-needs-to-be-acquired.md)
- [Memory and data structures](./memory-and-data-structures.md)
- [An example of using a resource in Rust](./an-example-of-using-a-resource-in-rust.md)
	- [Resources used in the example](./resources-used-in-the-example.md)
	- [Stepping through the example](./stepping-trough-the-example.md)
	- [Some core concepts illustrated](./core-concepts-illustrated.md)
- [Core concepts](./core-concepts-overview.md)
	- [Ownership is the responsibility to release the resource](./ownership-in-short.md)
	- [Borrowing is having access](./borrowing-in-short.md)
	- [Moving is transfer of ownership](./moving-in-short.md)
- [An example of providing a resource in Rust](./an-example-of-providing-a-resource-in-rust.md)
- [Summary](./intro-summary.md)

Commit message:

Lots of small changes, improve example of reference types.

src/SUMMARY.md, after:

# Summary

- [Background](./background.md)
	- [Example of using a resource](./example-of-using-a-resource.md)
	- [What is a resource](./what-is-a-resource.md)
- [Memory is a special kind of resource](./memory-as-a-resource.md)
	- [Examples of using memory in languages with a garbage collector](./memory-as-a-resource-example.md)
	- [Garbage collectors](./garbage-collectors.md)
	- [Not all memory needs to be acquired](./not-all-memory-needs-to-be-acquired.md)
- [Memory and data structures](./memory-and-data-structures.md)
- [An example of using a resource in Rust](./an-example-of-using-a-resource-in-rust.md)
	- [Resources used in the example](./resources-used-in-the-example.md)
	- [Stepping through the example](./stepping-trough-the-example.md)
	- [Some core concepts illustrated](./core-concepts-illustrated.md)
- [Core concepts](./core-concepts-overview.md)
	- [Ownership is the responsibility to release the resource](./ownership-in-short.md)
	- [Borrowing is having access](./borrowing-in-short.md)
	- [Moving is transfer of ownership](./moving-in-short.md)
- [An example of providing a resource in Rust](./an-example-of-providing-a-resource-in-rust.md)
- [Summary](./intro-summary.md)
